so on our thanks so much for coming on
stream today so can you help us
understand a little bit about who you
are and and what you stream sure um hi
guys i'm ana i stream variety for the
most part i used to stream a lot of
overwatch but I felt like that game made
me really sad made me really angry it
was difficult to have fun so I kind of
transitioned into variety streaming for
Halloween i streamed a few horror games
which i think other people enjoy a lot
more than I do but it's fun to get clips
of me screaming and being weird and
wacky but it's just really a really fun
fun time okay and how how is it that you
got into streaming um well I guess
considering the topic today that's
that's kind of why I started streaming
I've never disclaimer
I've never technically been like
diagnosed with anxiety or anything but
when I was younger I was really bad at
socializing with people and I thought
that streaming would be a really good
way to learn how to talk to people and
kind of get out of my shell a little bit
and and sort of put myself in an
uncomfortable position so that I could
sort of grow as a program I guess so you
started streaming specifically to like
help overcome your concerns about like
sort of being socially with people and
feeling uncomfortable yeah that's kind
of like a like diving in headfirst sort
of yeah I mean at the start it was it
was very nerve-wracking I mean it still
is sometimes like um for the first year
or so that I was streaming I was also
going to school so being overwhelmed
with schoolwork and one nod and and
trying to have a social life outside of
that and stream it was it was really
difficult sometimes knowing how
nerve-wracking it would be to hit the
the go-live button to actually gather up
the courage to do that right I mean it
was um it was worth it in the end and I
really enjoyed doing it but there were
definitely days where I would just not
stream because I was afraid afraid of
what well I mean again since I was
struggling so much for the social aspect
of streaming a lot the idea of being a
small streamer and growing slowly was
kind of nerve-wracking because a lot of
people who go into streaming they just
want to see themselves grow immediately
and become a big famous streamer
which wasn't the goal necessarily but it
was you know an appealing idea so to be
sitting there smaller numbers of viewers
or whatnot
and knowing that not hitting go live
would affect that but then knowing that
I might be streaming for three or four
hours talking to nobody was kind of it's
scary to try and talk to yourself I
guess for hours and hours on end and
still be entertaining yet so what's
scary about that I guess I worry a lot
about what I talk about what I say how
people perceive me I worry that people
judge me and maybe it doesn't matter but
it's still something that I typically
worry about in a social setting is you
know for example if I'm out in public
now I have weird pink hair so if someone
stares at me typically I worry that
there's something wrong with my
appearance or or they're judging me in
some way negatively rarely do I think of
something positive it's typically a
negative assumption that I have so
streaming is kind of that exact same
thing someone comes into my stream I
don't know what they think of me I don't
know how they feel watching my stream so
at least for the first year or so up
streaming that was something that was
always on my mind was I hope that you
know they didn't hate me they didn't
think I was weird didn't think I was
annoying so it sounds like you were
concerned about being judged on stream
by the internet and twitch chat yep and
then you're also you were also concerned
about being judged by you know real
people in the real world and if someone
is looking at you you know you're it
sounds like the first place your mind
goes is it maybe because it's my hair as
Pinker I look weird and it's not this
person recognizes because it recognizes
and recognizes me because I'm internet
famous
I mean maybe that'll be the case one day
but for now it's just an assumption that
something's wrong yeah and and how long
have you been having those kinds of
thoughts about something being wrong
like how long has your mind been jumping
to that place I'd say mostly my whole
life I mean at least I'd say as long as
I can remember in school I was never
really the popular kid or anything like
that in elementary school I had
sort of one or two friends here and
there we were kind of the the weird kids
I guess
in high school I was made fun of a lot
for I mean what I love to do which is
gaming I I liked a lot of Korean pop
music growing up as well and it's it's
popular now but when I was a kid I was a
complete loser for liking kpop so I got
teased a lot and I also got teased a lot
for my appearance so that's something
that I've always been really
self-conscious about was how I look to
other people I had sort of a group of
people on my school bus who would
frequently insult me and belittle me and
it made me very self-conscious and very
aware of what other people might be
thinking that they might not be saying
and is that what you call anxiety well I
think it's more of a confidence that she
than an anxiety issue what's the dance I
think that's not entirely sure
bianna so we're here to talk about
anxiety right so what is what do you
mean by anxiety well I guess the the the
worry I have the fears that might not be
justified but they're just kind of in my
head thinking that someone is judging me
when there's probably nothing there to
worry about and it's just my mind
forming these these thoughts that that
are unjustified so now this is kind of
interesting because it sounds like
you're recognizing that those thoughts
are unjustified so would you say that
the thoughts are illogical to some
degree I mean when I go out for example
I obviously don't look at someone and
immediately judge everything that's
wrong with them but for some odd reason
I think that everyone's doing that to me
which I mean seems a little yeah so are
you saying that that that's a confidence
issue or that's is that what we're
calling anxiety I guess a mix of both
yeah I think so so I think that you're
what maybe what you're thinking is that
if you were more confident in yourself
you wouldn't have those thoughts yeah I
think that might ok case so I think that
what you're experiencing is the classic
definition of anxiety right so you're
concerned about how people are judging
you and that's pretty classic anxiety it
also sounds like most of what you're
experiencing is around other people's
perceptions of you I'm not hearing you
say that like are you are you worried
about other stuff I mean I guess like
life in general is kind of unnerving
being 27 years old and kind of confused
about life I guess not knowing really
where I'm gonna go there's there's the
general anxiety of that I guess I've
also actually for about five years now
my my doctor I've never gone in-depth
discussing with a doctor or anything my
family doctor about anxiety issues I
have but um about five years ago I broke
up with my last boyfriend and he kind of
we had this this sort of thing going for
four months he owed me money he didn't
send me the money he kept kind of saying
that he was gonna send it to me and
didn't and then it was a song for months
of him leading me on with that I guess
and it I think that that created
something that my doctor said was just
anxiety but since then I've had issues
with breathing anything like it feels
like kind of yeah with breathing this is
what my doctor told me it was just
anxiety and it would go away what I mean
by issues with breathing well sometimes
I feel like I don't get a full breath of
air like my lungs don't feel like they
get filled up especially when I would
I'm struggling with with something that
makes me nervous or anxious it's like I
I don't feel like I'm breathing properly
I'm not getting a full full broken I
guess so it would you like to understand
how that works and how to fix it yes
okay well so I mean fix it is maybe a
little bit ambitious because once again
I can't dispense medical advice nor can
I fix anything about your life over the
Internet but let's start with this
what's the relationship between your
mind and your breath I guess when I get
to these points I'm very conscious of
how I'm breathing and the fact that I'm
lacking the air whereas normally if I'm
not thinking about how I breathe that's
it's just natural right it just happens
but when I'm in these nervous situations
I'm a lot more aware of just every
little rumor that I do
so maybe the the break the breathing is
related so I'm noticing so I'm gonna
kind of boil down what you said that as
you become aware of
breath your breath begins to change
right so I want you guys everyone who's
watching I want you to become aware of
your breath sorry guys
right so what so so anarthas you become
aware of your breath what do you start
noticing about it well the for me for
example right now I'm having the issue
with the breathing the the full breath
that I can't quite you know get hold of
so your experience and I feel like I've
become going right but I feel like I've
become very self-conscious of myself
when I'm doing that too because for the
for a year or so it was consistent
pretty much every day every moment and I
if I was with my sister or friends or
something they would always they would
always think something was wrong with me
because I'd sound like I'm taking big
gasps and sighing a lot and they would
think is everything okay and and I would
always just say no it's just my issue
with breathing everything's for the most
part normal like it's not going away so
just just don't assume I'm struggling
with something necessarily this is just
how I am now I guess I kind of accepted
it after a while that I was struggling
with it and what impact when other
people noticed that you were gasping and
sighing all the time what did that do to
you
I feel like I would try to breathe a
little more quietly which might make it
more difficult to actually yeah
absolutely so it's almost like a vicious
cycle because when they notice you're
breathing like a weirdo and like I don't
mean to be judgmental but I can imagine
that's the thought that was in your head
right like these people are noticing
that I'm reading like a weirdo and I
feel like a weirdo because people are
paying attention to my breathing and
then the more that that thought arises
in your head the worse your breathing
gets and then you try to do the worst
thing that people can do with anxiety is
you try to control it you try to push it
down and how does that work mmm-hmm
poorly absolutely right so that's the
first thing to understand about anxiety
is that like people try to like people
people are in a war with anxiety does
that make sense to you what does that
mean
very much I mean you're you're kind of
caught constantly thinking about it
especially when it arises and you're
trying to I mean as you said you're at
war you're trying to battle it push it
away try and be normal and then it just
it gets worse because you're so
conscious of it and again like with me
with the breathing
when I become conscious of it it's it's
more difficult to control so the thing
would be I guess it would be better to
find a way to distract myself from it
and go back to the normal breathing or
something like that but if I become
aware it's just yet a struggle so for
people who are like is it I'm gonna ask
like I'm not gonna actually look at
twitch at it's twitch chats answers
right now but as you become aware of
breathing I want you to notice that you
automatically begin to control it it's
very hard to just observe your breathing
without changing your breathing does
that make sense an RM hmm okay yes so
now I'm gonna ask you again so we're
gonna take a step back we're gonna
bounce a little bit between anxiety and
understanding let's start by
understanding the relationship between
the mind and the breath so what what
relationship does your mental state have
on your breathing well as I said I think
what my doctors said as well I guess
very briefly in our discussion about
this was that oh goodness
when let's forget what your doctor said
see it's it's the only thing I ever
talked to her about regarding my anxiety
so I think that maybe she wasn't fully
understanding my side of things as well
no no so let's forget let's forget
neuroscience let's forget experts let's
forget anything I've ever said on stream
I'm asking you a narf and is it honor
Anna or uh narf Anna and Anna what is
the relationship between what is going
in your going on in your mind and your
breathing first of all are they
connected I guess to some degree even
like subconsciously when I start having
anxiety if I start you know breathing
more quickly or something like that or I
feel more sometimes that are so I want
you to now we're gonna play a fun game
okay and you have to you have to pay
attention to twitch chat because I can't
because I'm focused on you I want you to
guess what's happening in my mind based
on how I breathe are you ready to play
the game okay okay we'll try our best
what's that's a nervousness something's
working you up maybe you just rise I
wouldn't say nervousness what is what is
okay yeah so right so people yes and you
guys so just think about this for a
[ __ ] second you can listen to the
sound of my breathing and you can tell
me what is going on in my mind you are
reading my mind based on listening to my
breath your doctor didn't tell you this
you didn't read this in a book human
beings know this like just think about
that and appreciate that for a second
right and when people are anxious what
do we tell them to do in right way and
what does that mean try and relax or
anything keep it normal which is
difficult when you're sort of thinking
about more I guess so we tell people to
take deep breaths right and does that
help no I mean especially for me right I
struggle to breathe deeply when I'm
having these anxious issues so they like
breathe deeply and I just I'm more and
more aware of the fact that I can't we
just get stressed so I think that for a
lot of people deep breathing does help I
think in your case it doesn't we'll kind
of tunnel down into why that is but the
first thing that I want people to
understand is that you know there are
patterns of breathing so I'll do another
one now what am I feeling right so let's
start like fear panic anxiety so now
what do you guys notice about how I'm
changing my breathing in what ways what
are the properties of breath like what's
different between this
in this what's different
I mean panic is a lot fast okay so speed
is one thing what else is different
about the breath we're reading chat
depth and speed of breath a tempo speed
and tempo are the same thing the
shallowness there we go so let's start
with two things right and now I'm gonna
breathe another way it's deep and
calming
so what is the emotion in relaxed calm I
mean even even just watching you do that
makes me feel more relaxed yeah right so
we'll get to that so calm but now what
water are what are the two axes of
breath one is depth in one is speed
right so what is so we can map out what
kind of emotions lead to what kind of
breathing right so calm breathing is
fast or slow okay where and calm
breathing is deep or shallow okay
excellent right so then let's talk about
angry breathing angry breathing is fast
or slow seems seem slow right I'll do it
again
I mean it's slower but if you think
you're pushing out quick good
so now you've stumbled up upon another
axis of breath with it which is
inhalation and exhalation we'll get to
that for a second so I would say that
angry breathing versus anxious breathing
both of them are actually fast but
anxious breathing is deep and fast and
angry breathing is slow and fast would
you guys agree does that make sense
right yeah and so if we think about calm
breathing
right that's slow and deep and this also
there are even deeper layers of this so
a breath in which I am trying to calm
myself has a rapid inhalation in a slow
exhalation listen that's me trying to
calm myself and me actually being calm
is you guy see the difference so there
are a lot of subtleties in breath that
we never study and the next thing to
understand so the first thing is that
the pattern of your breathing relates to
the pattern of your mind and now I'm
gonna ask you a question Anna do you
think that it's a one-way street or a
two-way street
and what sense do you mean so we know
that our mind determines our pattern of
breathing like when you get anxious you
can't take a full breath right and so
let's just pause and go on a quick
tangent so when you can't take a full
breath are we talking about speed or
depth absolutely that you notice that
very well good so we'll come back to
that yeah so you're telling me that what
is going on in your mind controls the
way that you breathe agree or disagree
okay
agree so now I'm gonna ask you is that a
one-way street does your mind control
your breathing or is it a two-way street
and as you're breathing also control
your mind I guess right so what does
twitchchat think so well they say six or
a street so let's just think about this
so I'm gonna tell you guys about a
fascinating study okay so there was a
there was a researcher who was trying to
examine facial expressions and was
trying to figure out how much like what
percentage of a facial expression
do I need to demonstrate for someone
else to read what I'm feeling right so
like if I if I like this an ARF
what do you think I feeling yeah
happiness or instead insane see that's
beautiful right so like let's just pause
because you're able to detect something
in my facial expression that's a
little bit crazy so what this researcher
was trying to figure out is like what
percentage of crazy do I need to show in
my face for you to be able to pick it up
does that make sense
so if I like did this Yeah right like
what is that like you're able to detect
something so what he did and do people
know what that expression was how did
that feel how did you feel when I made
that facial expression I mean you kind
of it doesn't take much it doesn't take
much at all so what this researcher did
was he tried to figure out like what
percentage of a facial expression do I
need to show in like what I showed was
like a tiny like a tiny tiny amount of
flirtation right it's just a tiny you I
picked it up like that and I could see
it made you a little bit uncomfortable
and and so the researcher tried to
figure out what percentage of a facial
expression do I need to show in order
for people to pick up what I'm trying to
send and he took his research assistants
and he had them practice facial
expressions so then what he did is he
trained as his research assistants to
kind of display 50 percent of anger 25
percent of anger a hundred percent of
anger and then he had his research
assistants like glare at people right
or like flirt with people or smile at
people and by doing that he was like
testing like okay and he told his
research assistant I want you to display
25 percent of anger and see if people
can pick it up you get with me so far
so bizarre things started happening his
research assistants started fighting
amongst each other
in the research assistant who is trained
to like with anger started getting
pissed off the research assistant who is
trained to feel like shame started
feeling ashamed and that through the
research assistant who is trained to
feel like to demonstrate happiness
started feeling better and so the
researchers stumbled upon a really
fascinating thing which is that your
facial expression actually controls the
way that you feel - and I want you to
pay attention like an ARFF like right
now you're feeling curious right so like
yeah now now how do you feel
I mean look at me here it's really I had
a little distracted I guess look at me
what are you feeling intrigued I I mean
this is an interesting story I think um
when when we were at twitchcon
Sahil kanga my sister and I we went to
this um this improv thing where they did
something similar where they were having
people go up on stage and perform sort
of emotions just like what this guy was
having people do he just no words there
anything just facial expressions body
and whatnot I kind of remembered that
from this conversation but um they
didn't go in depth with you know how
they felt afterwards kind of thing but I
mean maybe it affected ya there as well
so like like I think Tom sort of said it
that like if I smile it's someone like
you guys should try this right so it's
hard if you have social anxiety but like
genuinely smile at someone on the street
like if you just smile at someone I do
that quite regularly actually yeah cuz I
definitely had people I'm walking by
them on the street they smile at me and
me yeah this is kind of good just like
Iceman and what happens when someone
smiles at you is yeah and you can
control it and when you smile you start
to feel a little bit better so breath
and facial expressions like everything
your body has a feedback loop this is
the principle of homeostasis and it's
like how our body functions when our
heart rate goes too high
our heart says oh god we're beating too
fast let's slow it down
everything has a feedback loop this is
like when you go to the doctor and they
test your reflexes they're testing your
nerves ability to create a feedback loop
so everything in your body has like a
point and a counter point like when you
when you get super excited over time
like just think about this for a second
you don't say excited forever what
happens to your excitement over time
exactly I found and when you feel shitty
about yourself what happens hopefully
over time your body has a very simple
mechanism where like both sides like
everything is a two-way street and this
is homeostasis so when it comes to your
breathing I want people to really
understand this what I'm telling you is
that you can literally control your mood
with your breath right like I can
control the happiness that an hour feels
bye
see you can't you can't stop it's that
simple so all we have to do is
understand what what's the patter of our
breathing right so like think of
thinking about like if I start to
breathe in an angry way like I'm gonna
get angry like even if you guys just
like look at me and I'm like and I can't
stop but smiling which is why you're
smiling and you're detecting that
underneath the fake anger is the genuine
smile so you're empathic circuitry and
as spot on because you're able to read
my facial expressions you're able to
feel what I'm feeling and so now what I
want you guys to understand is if you're
feeling a particular way if you
literally change the practice of your
breathing you can change your mind and
before we started our stream today like
I was talking to a couple of people that
have been doing so the meditation I've
taught and they feel like super calm and
there are a lot of reasons why
meditation helps us but I think one of
the simplest ways is that if you control
your breathing you're going to control
your mind and this is the science of
brawn I am so now a narf I'm curious how
shallow are your breaths right now can
you feel like you can get a good breath
I do yeah there's there's moments here
in there where it feels a little more of
a struggle but for the most part yeah
it's it was it was definitely a little
more of a struggle at the start of the
stream and I feel a little more now we
have to dig into this what on earth
happened
because when you try to control it it
doesn't work when you try to take a full
breath you don't feel it so what did we
just do over the last 10 minutes to like
disable your anxiety well something that
I found find works in general as well as
when something's engaging and
interesting to me I'm not paying as much
attention to the breathing or I'm
focused on something else so I'm not
aware of how difficult it is to breathe
so my body just goes back to doing its
regular thing which is breathing just
you know staying alive so I mean the the
discussion you had there with the facial
expressions was intriguing to me so I
was I was more focused on my sleep so I
think there are two things involved
there one is we have to be careful about
distraction so one thing that people do
to combat anxiety is to distract
themselves
but like when you distract yourself I
would argue that what we did is not
actually distraction does that make
sense to you or not so much we are
trying to teach me a way to deal with it
without it right like so distraction is
an active effort so let's kind of define
terms is an active effort in your mind
to suppress the anxiety and look at
something else
it's like distraction is like going like
this I'm not listening I'm not listening
I'm not listening I'm not listening
which is not actually calming anyone
down does that make sense like that's
what distraction is you know like you're
not here like it it's it's like a very
tense it's like one of the tools in the
war against anxiety does that make sense
what we actually did is engagement does
that make sense like that there's a
difference between distraction and
engagement I think a lot of times your
hope is that by distracting you'll
actually engage in something but what I
think we were able to do for you an ARFF
is engage you in the present moment for
you to be like fully present and paying
attention to what I'm doing you didn't
try to distract yourself from your
anxiety right like you didn't actually
try that distraction like and if we
think about even the verb so if I use
the word distraction like who is the
subject of that sentence absolutely
right so you say I tried to distract
myself
whereas what happened here is like you
didn't try to do anything it just
happened
and so in apologies if this sounds kind
of abstract but like engagement is
different from distraction and what we
did was engagement which is to genuinely
like take your mind and have you
appreciate and enjoy and be in the
present whereas distraction is actually
like pushing something away engagement
is about naturally moving towards
something and distraction is about
pushing away so in a weird way like do
you feel like we actually even though
the effect is that we affected your
anxiety did you feel like we were trying
to do anything with anxiety
absolutely and that's that's the key
because when you try to do something to
your anxiety what happens absolutely
right so the way to overcome anxiety is
to actually not try to fight it because
what happens when you when you fight
anxieties it creates tension in your
mind there's a war in tension yeah fee
is the fuel for anxiety does that make
sense
so anything that you combat in your mind
when it comes to anxiety is just making
it stronger and I would guess a nerf
that in your experience the more you
fight the anxiety sometimes you win but
it seems like the more you fight it the
stronger it grows yeah right like you're
building up this wall and the more you
build the wall like the higher the
anxiety climbs and it's this really like
crazy unnerving it can make you feel
powerless because you're trying so hard
and it's like not working at all and and
you become desperate and you're like I
need to push a little bit harder I need
to push a little bit harder I need to
keep it at bay and then it just gets
worse and worse and worse and it's
spiraling yeah so I want you guys to
understand that anxiety is like cancer
of the mind like so what cancer does is
it takes the nutrients that your body
has and it grows with them and the more
that you fight against anxiety it's
gonna grow based on your attention the
more you try to fight it the worse it's
gonna get Anissa what do you think we
should do on our if how can we make you
anxious again I wanna make you anxious
II I don't know if I want to hmm
I mean I'll be honest right now I'm
feeling yeah buddy calm I'm not sure how
to go about making me anxious again yeah
so so I apologize for fixing it I think
I think this is an important
relationship for us to understand okay
so like I just wanted to try to like
reactivate it so that we could like in a
in a more definitive and mindful way
like see how you can come back but it
seems like your calmness much like your
anxiety is like not wanting to go
anywhere right now which I guess
well that's that's how it is with the
the breathing as well as that something
comes up and it gets really difficult
and I think because I either try to
distract myself or fight it it sticks
around for a lot longer because I mean I
didn't know that if I just calm down
things like find something that brings
me back to the normal happy mood that
it'll just go away on its own naturally
through through getting rid of the
anxiety one of the things that I want
you guys to stop doing is fighting your
anxiety so like understand that your
anxiety has a place in a role and that
you're gonna feel certain feelings and
then let just let it happen so the thing
is like I think I think fine of fighting
anxiety is a little bit like holding
water like the harder you hold the more
the water slips out of your finger so if
you want to keep like or keep uh if you
want to keep water in your hands an ARFF
like how do you do that
cut them keep them together don't put
too much chatter and then also like like
gently right like the harder you try
like it's not about trying twice as hard
it's just about sort of like creating
and like it's sort of like being like
gentle with it does that make sense yeah
and so that is that's the same thing you
need to do with your anxieties when your
anxiety arises like I want you to kind
of tell yourself that okay like this is
happening again it's gonna happen my
body is used to doing this my mind is
used to doing this we can get into why
your body and mind do those things but
just sort of acknowledge that it's gonna
happen and also recognize that like you
know the more that you try to keep the
tide at bay like the more it builds up
but if you let the tide roll in
eventually it's gonna do what go past
right so like the tide comes in and it
comes out and remember that like just
like any other feeling that you have
even if you feel anxious you can't stay
happy forever you can't stay sad forever
you can't stay anxious forever and if
you oddly enough like the more like you
open the doggy door like dog is gonna go
in and out like and so you just let it
in and then you let it out if you want
to you can try to breathe a little bit
through it but don't try to breathe to
control it like if you feel yourself
breathing fast let yourself breathe fast
for a little while and then let yourself
kind of
slow-like see even now you're doing it
you're practicing yeah you're practicing
excellent do you guys see that gel catch
that I've been trying actually I have
watched the stream a couple of times
when you do the meditations and stuff
and I've been trying that when I have
the sort of moments where I struggle to
breathe I try to go through the
meditations and calm myself and that's
typically quite well though I could be a
little more consistent on how long I do
it that's okay
otherwise so I think really the
advantage there is that it's not that
you're trying to control your breathing
or dispel the anxiety what you're really
doing is engaging your mind in the
present like that's the advantage of
meditation because when you do like the
alternate nostril breathing practice
it's just like weird and awkward and not
simple enough to where your mind really
has to pay attention otherwise you're
gonna get lost does that make sense and
that value yeah because it forces your
mind into the present through its
difficulty if you guys want another just
brilliant exercise to bring your mind
fully to the present and conquer all
anxiety are you right-handed or
left-handed you ready for it brush your
teeth with your left hand I'll try that
tonight but it's very difficult but the
main thing that I want you to pay
attention to is do it when you're
anxious and then your mind is not gonna
have the RAM to be anxious if you brush
your teeth with your non-dominant hand
because it's just gonna be so hard that
like you can't think about anything else
I'll give it a go tonight when I feel
anxious hopefully I feel like just
tonight it somehow we really come full
circle because I never thought on
streamwriter I'd hear you say hopefully
I'll be anxious tonight that's that's
letting the tide in and letting it come
out right
so when you say bizarrely enough
hopefully I'll be anxious tonight you're
not fighting a war with anxiety anymore
I mean if it gives me some other way to
deal with it too
that's that's beneficial in the long run
so if I can try it and learn from it
that'll help and if it doesn't work I
can come to you tell you didn't work and
you absolutely so I think that actually
illustrates a fantastic principle in it
which is that this is about like it's
not about right
answers from me and this is why I think
you should ignore what doctors tell you
and when I tell I mean not like ignore
medical advice but you know like don't
set your compass to what your doctors
tell your even I tell you like this is
about what works for you and you have to
test it for yourself right you have to
see like what works for you there are
things that I'm gonna be right about and
there are things that I'm gonna be wrong
about I'm not like I'm I'm Nishant so I
think it's awesome that you're thinking
about really like trying this stuff for
yourself and you're meditating from time
to time and you're figuring out what
works and what doesn't so now so that
was kind of a quick primer on breath
anxiety and sort of how to think about
anxiety the other sort of dimension of
anxiety that I want to talk a little bit
about is that in my experience anxieties
actually learned behavior so I think
what happened in your case is that like
when you were like made fun of in school
your brain actually did something very
important which is that it recognized
that when people are looking at me I'm
in danger does that make sense yeah and
then what happened is like it learned
that lesson and it's still like it
learned that lesson so now it's part of
your programming so anytime people look
at you you feel like you're in danger
it's really oddly enough it's that
simple so one of the crazy things about
anxiety is I think like sure it's an
illness and it causes suffering but I
think it's important to remember that
your brain is not broken your brain is
just doing what it knows how to do and
unfortunately sometimes it does things
that are maladaptive like your brain is
just trying to protect you from danger
because some part of you like it when
when you feel judged by random people on
the street it's because your brain
remembered that you used to get judged
by other people and that getting judged
is dangerous and bad so let's go home
where no one can see you so what is your
brain actually doing there I guess as
you said it's trying to protect me and
prepare me for whatever the outcome may
be so oddly enough I want you to rethink
your anxiety and this helps you to form
a truce with it is understand that your
anxiety is like it's like a pit bull
that doesn't know what's dangerous
and what isn't it's like a blind pitbull
so like it can't see anyone but like it
knows someone's in the room and it's
default mode is to like attack and what
you really need to do is like calm down
the pitbull and like understand that the
pitbull is there for reason it's not
trying to screw you over it's really
just trying to protect you because when
you when you retreat from the outside
world and you go home like how do you
feel Kong's come yeah right so that's
your brain like trying to help you out
and it just doesn't understand that it's
doing a bad job because it's like it's
like a reflex
so tell me any any questions from you
well I'm wondering so so so when you get
into these situations is there something
you can sort of I mean I guess this
might be a little situational for me
specifically or other people but is
there something you can tell the pitbull
something you can do to actively like
should I say just don't worry about it
they're probably not thinking that you
know something that negative so if you
say don't worry about it they're
probably not thinking something negative
is that making a truce with or fighting
a war with your anxiety I guess kind of
a planning work because see like for
myself typically I I put myself into
their shoes again and I say to myself
you know normally I'm not looking at
someone and immediately judging
everything about them I don't know them
it's not my problems so I try to think
that that's that's the other person -
they looked at me maybe they just
glanced my way they they think nothing
of it so I try to keep that as my
mentality when I start feeling hurried
about social I think you're you're using
logic right you're using rational
thinking to combat your feeling of fear
that reacts sometimes so like but that
is I think fundamentally creating
tension in fighting a war so I think
oddly enough if you want it like how do
you calm down a blind pit bull that's
upset that someone is in the room give
it a give it a treat so I think that's
maybe like distraction or playing a
video game what else can you do
yeah introduce it sure's and maybe do
you have dogs
my sister has two so how do you calm
down dogs that are upset like does she
actually just pull out a treat every
time they freak out
now I mean one of them is very energetic
so we just kind of pull them to the
corner and hold on to him and try to you
know go okay okay hold on you're
glossing over the the juicy part how do
you try to calm him down
oh yeah we pull him somewhere else we
bring him somewhere else and sort of
take his mind off of whatever case
that's like going home so we're gonna
steer clear of that solution for a
minute well again we typically just the
best way of doing it is kind of like
yanking on her and hold on so you're
doing it you're glossing over the good
part how do you comfort her we talk to
her come there we go right so that's
what you need to do to your anxiety you
need to say hey buddy I know you're
freaking out right now and I know that
you're like like I know that you're
scared and I know that you think that
we're in danger but actually this is the
mailman he comes every day and and you
know like I understand that you're
feeling the way that you're feeling but
like hey why don't we just calm down a
little bit it's not that you're wrong
it's just that like this is not actually
the situation that you instinctively
think it is and let's remember that when
we're walking around and we look at
someone we have to look somewhere and if
we're walking down the street we're
gonna generally be looking at people
ahead of us and we're gonna have to see
people yeah right but like I think it's
important to be like compassionate
towards yourself and like be
understanding and try to calm that calm
that anxiety down by like petting it you
know and sort of like being kind to it
and sort of acknowledging that hey like
this is the tide rolling in you're like
you're allowed to like you know ruin our
sandcastle but at some point you're
gonna you're gonna kind of go back out
and so let the anxiety rise within you
try to be calm towards it don't try to
calm yourself down this is very
different like these are two very
different things don't force it down
which is what calming yourself down is
be calm towards your anxiety and
acknowledge that oh like this is you
freaking out like I understand that this
is like a protective mechanism that's
arising within me but I also know that
this mechanism isn't entirely
appropriate or is my anxiety action
like is it picking up on something so
you can sort of be like okay like what
are you concerned about and think
through it for a minute like is this
person like is there someone who's like
walking behind me who's like kind of
creepy you know like because because
remember that anxiety and as someone
you're very empathic so you pick up a
lot like even when I fake a facial
expression you're able to tell what's
underneath the facial expression so I
think the odd thing about your anxiety
is you may be picking up stuff that
other people don't pick up and you may
actually be right so I think the other
really scary thing is that if there's
it's possibility that people are judging
you great how does that make you feel
well I mean if I'm right it might be
easier to sort of I guess kind of
understand where they're coming from if
I felt the same thing at times so if my
goal is to understand and calm my
anxiety rather than myself then it might
be easier to just push aside their their
their opinions or whatever into yeah
absolutely right so the other cool thing
about anxiety is like what you're doing
is you're trying to tell it that it's
wrong but the other thing that you can
tell it is not that it's wrong but that
it's not as important as you think it is
like you're right but it just happens to
be that I'm never going to see this
person again so even if they are judging
me like okay who cares right and as you
start to grow in confidence and things
like that that's gonna get easier
that make sense yeah other questions
can't think of any right off the top of
my head now okay okay so you said that
is it okay if we kind of switch gears
for a little bit or we s we've been
talking for about 45 minutes but are you
open to talking for maybe about 15-20
minutes longer yeah sure so the other
thing that I want to kind of dive into
is sort of the roots of anxiety and
remember how I was saying that like
anxiety is a learned behavior so for a
lot of people disarming their anxiety
goes to sort of the root of where their
anxiety formed and kind of like
processing that
so you say that you've always been
concerned about how other people are
judging you or you'll always sort of
remember being anxious for the most part
yeah and you help me understand like
were there things that that happened
when you were younger like so it sounds
like bullying was a big part of it we're
getting picked on were there other
things that sort of happened that you
think sort of taught you that the world
is a dangerous place and that judgment
is bad I grew up with a very religious
and somewhat closed-minded grandmother
so that may have affected things she was
I don't wanna say she's a very positive
person growing up she was a little more
negative so I think she was somewhat
judgmental of others and very concerned
with with people we spent time with
growing up my sister and I were raised
by our grandmother because my my parents
divorced when I was very young so we
were raised by her in a very religious
household people we were friends with
she was very particular about pretty
much anything we did who we spent time
with in that kind of thing so I think I
grew up in an atmosphere where judgment
was quite normal and she was British and
I think showing emotion and stuff is not
really common in a British household I
think so that that may have been
difficult as well when I didn't know how
to bring up what I was feeling or
something for fear that she might
misunderstand or or it just seemed
uncomfortable I guess what was
uncomfortable about it it was just not
something that we discussed often I
guess the personal feeling someone oh it
wasn't a huge topic of discussion in my
household and so can you give me an
example of like how your mom was I mean
your grandmother was sort of you
mentioned like kind of close-minded
judgmental like very concerned about who
you hung out with like can you I'm sure
do you mind sharing an example about
that well my best friend is a lesbian am
i grown there was very against that
mentality that that that that you know
that type of person she's I never
mentioned it to my grandmother for that
reason is because I'm worried of how
she'll she'll react if she'll be upset
because she's not my best friend since I
mean I've known my best friend for about
20 years so my grandmother knew her when
we were we were we little kids at school
so it was sort of a secret yeah so what
are you afraid of
so it sounds like you're not you haven't
shared this with your grandmother what
are you afraid of what are you afraid of
I guess disapproval I obviously very
much care about my grandmother and her
opinions and how she feels about things
and obviously my best friend is one of
the most important people in my life so
I don't want there to be a rift or if my
best friend for example sometimes I'll
invite her to Christmas dinners
Thanksgiving dinners and if my grandma
found out about this there's a chance
maybe she would just say no not allow
her to come out anymore so I'd prefer to
kind of keep things from being hostile
so it sounds like you're I'm gonna need
a second sure you're very good at hiding
yep I'm pretty good at keeping all the
things about myself that I want to keep
private I keep them private well I think
maybe a defense mechanism I'm not sure
but my goodness that sounds very Rodian
yeah so yeah that's what II do you so
you also hide a fair amount on stream
right I'd say so yeah there's you know I
I want my stream environment to be
something that's that's happy and
positive as well so when I stream I want
other people to feel good not upset so
if I if I have any issues in my life the
stream is a place I can go to not
necessarily ignore them but be happy and
kind of forget it a little bit till I go
back to reality I guess off stream so
it's it's like a happy place to go what
do you think about that I think it's
nice sometimes if you're overwhelmed by
something to have somewhere you can go
like it's maybe not the best thing to
just kind of push things aside but I
mean if I'm feeling overwhelmed it's
nice to have people to talk to laugh
with kind of focus on them if they have
issues instead of just on myself and if
I can help
maybe it'll give me ideas for how I
could help myself if they have similar
you know similar issues in their life so
I think what we're running across is
that streaming is actually like a coping
mechanism for you does something I think
the challenge you know the problem with
coping mechanisms is if you use one you
know you know what you have to do the
next day work on the issues you that's
the problem right is working on your
issues is different from coping so like
coping implies that like you're like
covering up or like you know
decompressing like something but then
you're still hiding so what I'm what I'm
concerned about for you and RF is
actually that like I don't know I think
a lot of you mentioned early on that you
have some anxiety about life I think the
anxiety is rooted in some kind of
inauthenticity it's possible yeah what
are you what are you hiding like what
are you what are you hiding about
yourself from yourself
that's that's kind of a tough one to
understand I feel like it's a really
large thing I guess to some degree I'm
not I don't like I'm not satisfied with
myself entirely which i think is a lot
of where the confidence issue comes as
well as that I have a family that's
fairly accomplished as people and I'm I
mean I'm still young but I feel like I
could have gotten more out of life thus
far I feel like I do a lot of things
that I really enjoy but I still feel
like there's a lot more I could do so
maybe I expect too much of myself or I
put too much pressure on myself so I
want you to notice what you're doing
there that's you're fighting a little
war in your own head you see that yeah
that's not good
because I think what's happened is
you've gotten so it's become so in
siding has become so instinctive for you
that you do it all the time and then you
kind of like try to justify you're
trying to justify me you're trying to
like you're trying to be like
encouraging like a friend like you're
trying to reassure yourself that oh like
even though you feel like a failure
you're not really a failure right you
you like reassure yourself and you say
that you're and by the way you can tell
me to go [ __ ] myself at any point and
also we can stop at any point but I'm
concerned that what what's actually
going on is like you try to you try to
like pep yourself up and you you you
feel some degree of like you're not
maybe you haven't lived up to the
expectations that you set for yourself
you haven't lived up to the perceived
expectations of your family and at the
same time you kind of tell yourself oh
like I am having lots of fun though but
that feels kind of fake to me
mm-hmm does it feel fake to you I mean
the fun part it's ya know it does it's
hard to really understand how I even
feel about these things honestly I've
never fully tried to so you guys know
what's with it know it's hard for you to
understand because you're so good at
hiding that might be it yeah
so you're trying to detect yourself but
your self levels like a hundred so like
and so if you really want to understand
yourself you have to start by like
recognizing that like there's a part of
you there's a part of your mind that's
just really good at stealth mm-hmm and
your my guess is that part of your
directionless 'no siz because you're
kind of trying to move forward but like
you're not quite sure where to start and
i think that you you have lots of good
ideas but the problem is like you're not
sure if the i-i think i imagine you have
a lot of good ideas cuz it's clear to me
that you're very smart but i think the
challenge here is that you don't know if
the idea is gonna move you in the
direction that you want to move like i
think you're good at figuring out right
yeah this will get me from point A to
point B this will get me from point A to
point C but the challenge is you don't
know if you want to go to point B or you
don't want to go if you want to go to
point C so yeah that's a challenge is
not one of capability it's one of
direction so you know where Direction
comes from from your somewhere right
like so the question is like what do you
want to do see I I don't know that's the
that's that's where the confusion comes
from is that I feel like that's a
something that maybe doesn't weigh on
everybody my age but it's the future is
you know that's that's a long time to
think about that's I don't want to I
don't want to go in a direction that's
bad for me I don't know necessarily what
direction will make me happier or I mean
the hiding thing probably I try to just
avoid thinking about it and kind of
going from you know one thing together
as you said in just something that seems
like accessible arn or if I want to
commend you for streaming because I
think the challenge here is that I think
at times in your life you've known what
you wanted to do but you haven't let
yourself want to do it well to be honest
streaming was one of those things a long
time ago that I wanted to do a lot more
of and got sort of afraid of it and at
one point or another I just sort of
hunkered down and said okay just click
the go live button start doing this
consistently and yeah
where he goes and I think it has that's
what I mean so I think streaming is a
good idea but I wonder like I'm
imagining living in a house with your
grandmother and you being like 15 or 16
years old and you actually knowing at
some point when other people are
figuring things out like you're like hey
I think I want to do this but then you
reflexively recognize that that's not an
acceptable answer and so you go back
into self and you've been you've been
stealth for so long that you don't even
know how to find yourself a what yeah
that's right though I I don't think I've
ever really had a specific path that I
was really interested in I grew up I
wanted to be a chef for a long time
I love I love cooking I like the idea of
like learning about food and alcohol -
over the last few years I've had some
experiences going through really nice
bars experiencing the creative side of
these things has always been really
intriguing to me I don't love the idea
of working in a kitchen which was one of
the things that really deterred me from
progressing for the I took a very brief
I took a culinary arts program once very
briefly and I I discovered that the
kitchen atmosphere itself was not
appealing to me and then so I think my
life has been split in two interests
that are really that are kind of very
distant from each other in a sense I
really love gaming I love eSports I love
the idea of streaming and whatnot and
I've always kind of thought that that
would be better as a as a hobby
something as you said as well as like
maybe a coping mechanism outside of real
life I get something that kind of just
is a distraction I guess and then my
interest in food and the culinary arts I
guess is something else that's always
really interested me but I don't know
how to like which one I'm more
interested in which one is more pursuing
the gaming would be better as a hobby
where did you learn that I don't really
think it's something that I've learned
so much as it's it's always been that
thing that has been the hobby for me so
I'm a little afraid of creating a job
out of it and getting tired of it and
not having something that I would want
to fall back on to like something that's
there is a yeah so let's let's be clear
there's a difference between a good idea
and what you want
mm-hmm so I think you're probably so you
smiled when I said that so I think you
understood something that I'm trying to
tell you and what am I trying to tell
you yeah right and a lot of people are
very passionate about it my friends who
are involved in gaming any sports and I
guess for the most part the ones that I
do know haven't really gotten sick of
gaming because they work in the industry
but I guess that's always a fear of mine
is that if I worked in the industry or I
did things that related to gaming I
might get so yes so remember what was so
but enough what's your problem is it
that is it success or direction
direction
what is your reason to not go into the
gaming industry is it success or
directions honestly for one it's well
direction I'd say mostly I mean maybe
success but I think is what I'm hearing
what I'm hearing is that you're afraid
it may not work or what I'm not hearing
is like as what you're telling me is I
like gaming I'm interested in gaming
I've always liked gaming I've always
been a nerd and what I'm well yeah but
it's for me it's one it's it's the fear
of back in I guess about four years five
five years ago or so I got hired at riot
and then I was denied the visa to work
there I'm Canadian and it's it's not
easy to get into gaming necessarily
where I live or or have the option for a
visa or something like that where I live
so I kind of I accepted that I guess and
just wanted to focus on something else
and the other passion I had was cooking
drinks whatever so I thought maybe I
could lead towards that or something but
I think it always has been a confusion
I've been very yes and I think I
understand why you're confused because I
think what you're doing is you're
confusing in your own mind what you want
with what you think you can achieve and
that leads to a hell of a lot of
confusion so this is really important to
understand there's a lot of peace and
strength and confidence in knowing that
you want something and also
accepting that you can't have it but
you're not doing that what you're doing
is you're saying because this is hard
I'm not gonna let myself want it and so
you're stuck in limbo because you're not
allowed to fail because you're not
allowed to try because you made you're
afraid that you won't be successful and
so you're kind of like you're in limbo
like I don't think you're I think you
call it confuse but really what I'm
detecting from you is like limbo you're
just like floating without any like
you're not confused you're just like
stuck outside of some gravitational
orbit and just floating in space and not
going anywhere
so I think the first thing that you've
got to do is like understand what it is
that you want in divorce in your mind
whether it's a good idea or a bad idea
there are things that you want to do
like there's something that I want to do
which i think is a terrible idea so I
want to hold another retreat for video
gamers and I just want to do it like I
want to rent a house for 10 days or like
a farm so I was talking to someone about
this and they're like yeah get a farm
and like don't get a house get a farm
and I want to tell the Internet that if
you're struggling in life in your game
or just show up and we'll figure it out
and like I don't know if no one's gonna
show up or 20 people are gonna show up
or 50 people are gonna show up I don't
know if someone's gonna show up with
lice like that's a problem like there
are all kinds of reasons why this is a
bad idea but the fact that it's a bad
idea has nothing to do with whether I
want to do it or I don't want to do it
does that make sense and I think what
you're doing like I want you to really
think about this and let me know I mean
it can be hard but I would encourage you
to actually go back and watch this
because I think what you're doing is
you're confusing what you want with what
you think is a good idea and those are
completely different
I honestly I'm not entirely sure if I
know what I want yeah honestly like it's
like you do because I think anytime you
get a vet like anytime you have a little
sprout of a want what happens is you're
judgmental you're highly accomplished
family your set of values and what is
worth it or not worth it steps in and
squashes it okay sounds great so then
like of course you don't know what you
want because you haven't let it grow
right like you judge it based on its its
likelihood of success and then you
that's the that's the beginning and end
of the discussion so it's like either
either you you know Culinary Academy or
like like is it like what is it like
medical school engineering like what are
the things like you just want to be a
lawyer as a kid but I didn't think so so
this is where you've got to be careful
because you've been conditioned by your
family too and you're not you're not
allowing yourself to like want the
things that you want and so the little
vestiges of what you want you know like
the ones that didn't scale up stealth at
level one got squashed and so the only
ones that have been allowed to grow are
the ones that skilled up stealth and
then every time they level up if they
get caught they get destroyed by your
judgmental mind so they have to like
level up stealth and then we end up with
stealth stealth 100 and then you're
scratching yourself and you're like I
don't know what I want I mean that
sounds pretty accurate to me okay well
unfortunately I don't have as simple of
a fix for you as your anxiety when it
comes to this you know I think you know
I would really think about reflecting or
writing or seeing a therapist there are
a lot of different things that you can
do I mean do you have a sense of like
how you can get started and
understanding what you want maybe what
are you thinking I guess like the thing
that I I feel like I kind of want two
different things I and I feel like one
is a little less accessible so I'm sort
of leaning towards the other thing and
it's it's something that I'm working
towards it's just
I guess I still have some doubt in my
mind but I guess I need to work on one
of these I forget which eSports team I
think Philly fusion they've got a
professional chef right yeah no but most
of the teams do have confessional chefs
but again there is for me with gaming
it's always been a big concern of visas
or something like that I don't know how
accessible they are living in Canada
might make things more difficult if
they've got someone in the US who's
really easy to get ahold of then why
would they take someone from Canada why
would they spend the money on the visa
that kind of thing so I think it's it's
doubt that I've let kind of overwhelm me
and sort of deter me from pursuing
something like that yeah that makes
sense I think I think doubt is a big
problem right so it's the chance of
success that's preventing the low chance
of success that you perceive that's
preventing you from trying which is a
really really paralyzing way to live
life right so like you're falling into
something called the planning fallacy
which is that you're making a plan and
then you're choosing to act based on the
success of that plan you know what the
problem with that is when do we make
plans before the and so yeah so how good
is your plan at the beginning versus at
the end I mean my the majority of my
family works for the government that
kind of thing so there their mentality
is even if you don't love your job at
least it's stable at least it's you know
sensible yes and then do things that you
want to do on this so I think that's
fine but then at least you have to be
honest remember what I was saying
earlier that like you have to be honest
with what you want it's it's one thing
to be honest about what you want and to
give it up it's another thing to not let
yourself want it because you don't think
it's viable right so like does that make
sense to you and so I think what you're
the problem is that you're sort of
forming a plan but like when you try
something you're gonna learn all kinds
of things along the way that you didn't
expect like well as I said right now I
am I'm working towards some sort of
discuss it on streem because I'm kind of
don't there's no people who live in my
city who make me uncomfortable but I'm
taking a class for something that
is one of the things that is really
interested we don't want for a long time
so I figure I kind of just figured screw
it if it'll work for me I'm working I
just started a job yesterday that has to
do with this thing so I'm I'm
progressing towards something that I've
put off for a long time and sort of had
interest in and just didn't want to do
it for here of it so you're doing it all
right so like I think the most important
words that you just said out of
everything that you just said is the two
words
screw it I'm just gonna do it that's
that's what you want to do right and if
we think about like gamers like what
keeps them stuck it's their inability to
say screw it like if you're you know if
you there's someone that you have a
crush on and you're like afraid they're
gonna reject you like in order to move
forward you've got to say screw it and
you've got a truck yeah you've got to
open yourself up for failure and that's
like that's the problem is that people
are not willing to say I mean like this
whole stream started because one day I
said people told me like if you if you
go online and you start talking to
people about their feelings like you
could get sued and so I've disclaimers
and stuff but like yeah I could get
scooped suit they're like all kinds of
reasons why this is a bad idea like it's
a bad idea to do this and I think it's
the right thing to do so I'm saying
screw it and I'm doing this and I love
it
like this is fun for me and I think it's
great that you're saying screw it and I
think the more that you say that I think
the better off you'll be but you know
don't go overboard obviously like but
yeah I mean I think that's not the
concern I think your your pragma your
your you know your personality spectrum
is so far in the pragmatic side that you
can let leak like you can let loose and
you're still not going to cross like the
50 percent you know you're still you're
still gonna be pragmatic in the way that
you do things and I'm sure that you've
done a lot even though you've said screw
it I would bet money that you've done a
lot of calculation about what you're
doing and you've optimized your chances
of success I mean that's why I'm taking
a course for it and what not to learn it
before I kind of dive into the deep end
of it so okay so thanks a lot Anna I
think we'll turn things I don't know
sometimes people may have questions for
you so let's kind of actually turn to
questions if that's okay do you have
actually do you have questions before we
kind of switch switch gears
um any less I think I think I'm good I
think I'll get on the questo case for
now I think of anything I'll hit you up
so we're gonna see I'm gonna ask twitch
chat if people have thoughts or
questions for either you or me and then
if not if no one has questions for you
then we'll sort of end the call if
that's okay so if people are asking
first like what's your scream schedule
well right now I'm taking school classes
so most of the time I'll stream Sunday
nights Tuesday nights Monday nights
mostly nighttime when I'm done classes
so most days of the week I'm gonna be
working Friday and Saturday nights so
for the foreseeable future at this sort
of new job that I started so I'm not
gonna be streaming then but every other
night of the week I try my best to get a
stream in here and there so that I can
sort of you know have something positive
in my life that makes me feel great so
it sounds like most weeknights so that's
awesome and then so domination time asks
regarding coping versus dealing with
issues when should when should we do
coping coping must have some good
positive functions right absolutely so
remember that like coping is a band-aid
so when you're feeling like you can't
solve the root of your problem like all
the time so as a human being your mind
like you need some way to function so
like it's fine for us to talk about you
know Anna's like how she doesn't know
what she wants in life and how her
desires have like a high stealth to hide
from her grandmother and all that good
stuff and at the end of the day like on
a day-to-day basis like she can't she
can't tackle that problem so she has to
the feelings that that bring up in terms
of anxiety or confusion like in order
for her to apply to whatever school
thinks she's got or apply for a job or
go to work or stream she's got a like
table that existential dread you know
can I just say as well actually the last
bit of this conversation has been
something that I wanted to avoid
bringing up because it makes me kind of
scared so the fact that you got it out
of me I normally I probably would just
try to veer off and talk about something
else or cut the conversation short but
I mean I figured it'd be better for
myself my mental state the stream as
well maybe to discuss it and kind of
learn to deal with it I guess and so
from what I'm gonna translate that anta
so what you're saying is that you
unclick the Stealth button and you're
visible for a few moments it's dangerous
right because now you can be targeted oh
my goodness you're out in the open yes
so much danger but I mean that's it's
why I started streaming it's kind of why
I came on here it's why I've started
doing what I've been doing lately I'm
just kind of trying to get out of here I
guess I really commend you for that I
think it's like the opening ourself up
to like like stepping out of our
protective safe zone I think is really
the first step to changing your life and
so I really commend you for doing that
and yeah it looks like so I'm going to
just go back to Tom's questions so you
know so like I was saying like so you
have to cope in the moment so like if
you you know let's say that you lose a
loved one in your grieving and you have
to go to work the next day like I think
it's completely reasonable to use coping
mechanisms to sort of shove those
feelings down or like decompress those
feelings a little bit but at the end of
the day I think the problem is that
coping makes you feel better but it
never solves the problem and so people
without being very thoughtful about it
start to rely on coping more and more
and more and more and more because
that's what helps them feel better like
in the moment and then over time like
your problems never get solved because
you think that coping is like because
coping does help but it doesn't fix it
it's just like a band-aid so and
sometimes like let's remember that like
band-aids have their place in society
right like band-aids are good for us
like we need band-aids sometimes but
don't confuse a band-aid with actually
like the healing that goes on underneath
and both of those have their role so let
me see were there so are you following
to a chat and I also do you think that
there are other I mean other questions
[Music]
I'm not seeing any necessarily saying
that
he's gonna use a heroin to continue to
cope maybe I'll give it a go don't use
heroin boys and girls I'm kidding I
would a bad drug okay so I'm not seeing
a whole lot of questions so I'm gonna go
ahead and hop off the call on RF and
then we'll go ahead and transition and
if people want to like populate with
questions we'll kind of come back to
those in a second okay okay thanks a lot
for coming on in thank you for having me